As a developer, you were tasked to design
a website for the Little Lemon Restaurant.
One of the main requirements is that
the website easily adapts to different
devices, platforms and screen sizes.
Does this mean that you have to
redesign the website for each device?
No, relax.
You do not have to redesign
your website for each device.
In this video, I'll introduce you
to Bootstrap CSS class in fixes and
modifiers.
And you will learn how you can
use them to save your time.
Let's get started.
Bootstrap has quite a large CSS library
built by Bootstraps developers using
thousands of use cases.
How it achieves this is
through CSS classes and
their variations through in fixes and
modifiers.
It is important that you as a developer,
understand in fixes and modifiers and
you will explore each of these terms.
You will use class in fixes for responsive
breakpoints in the Bootstrap grid system,
let's go ahead and
cover how in fixes are used.
You already know that breakpoints
are the triggers in bootstrap for
how your layout changes across device or
viewpoint sizes.
Here are the responsive breakpoints
available in bootstrap and
how we use them.
Know that each has a specific name.
Extra small is for
screens less than 576 pixels wide.
Small is for screens greater than or
equal to 576 pixels wide.
In bootstrap CSS rules,
this is abbreviated as SM.
Medium is for screens greater than or
equal to 768 pixels wide.
In Bootstrap CSS rules,
this is abbreviated as MD.
Large is for screens greater than or
equal to 992 pixels wide.
In Bootstrap CSS rules,
this is abbreviated as LG.
Extra large is for screens greater than or
equal to 1200 pixels wide.
In bootstrap CSS rules
this is abbreviated as XL.
Extra extra large is the screen is greater
than or equal to 1400 pixels wide.
In bootstrap CSS rules,
this is abbreviated as XXL.
Did you notice that there is no
class in fix or dimension for
extra small on the list?
This is because extra small is the default
breakpoint in Bootstrap CSS rules.
As bootstrap is mobile first.
We use the abbreviations for
these breakpoints as in fixes in
the CSS rules for the grid system.
This basically means you have to insert
the abbreviation into the CSS class name.
I will show you how to use this shortly.
Bootstrap components provide a pre built
set of reusable UI styles and elements for
your web applications.
Let's now learn how to use modifiers
through an example that uses
an alert element.
I can have an html file where I set an
alert primary CSS class that is applied to
the element.
Alert primary displays the alert using
Bootstraps primary color which is blue.
The dash primary part of
the class is the modifier.
If you want to change this to red for
example, for
an error message you will
use the danger modifier.
Here is a list of modifiers
available in Bootstrap.
Primary, secondary, success, info,
warning, danger, light, dark.
Alerts are often used to show information
that needs immediate attention from users
such as warnings, errors or
confirmation messages.
Bootstrap provides an easy way to
create predefined alert messages and
it also has different types of alerts.
The difference between the alerts is just
the color used to display the predefined
alert message.
For example,
the primary alert displays the alert using
bootstraps primary color which is blue.
On the other hand, the danger
alert displays the alert in red.
Now, let's turn our attention
to how this works in code.
In this html file, I have a six columns
CSS class applied to a div element.
In this example, I want to change
this rule for large screens.
To do this, I in fix LG into the col CSS
class, by adding col dash LG dash six.
Bootstrap components provide a pre built
set of reusable UI styles and elements for
your web applications.
For example, I can add an alert component.
I do this by adding an alert CSS class
followed by the contextual class,
alert dash primary.
Now I have to identify
the function of the alert.
To do this, I add a roll CSS class
directly after the contextual class,
alert dash primary and type alert.
On the next line, I type the name
that must be displayed on the alert.
A message.
Alerts are useful for
displaying information, warnings or
error messages to users.
The contextual class,
alert primary will display the alert using
Bootstraps primary color, which is blue.
The primary part of
the class is the modifier.
If I want to change the color to red,
for example, for an error message,
I will use the danger modifier.
To change the color to red, I simply
replace the modifier Primary with danger.
Now you have learned about CSS
class in fixes and modifiers and
how you can use them to save you time.